Dear incoming Social Research students,

Once again, I hope all is well with you. We look forward to seeing you around Malet Street this autumn!

In this email, I would like to share a few important reminders to help you get ready for an exciting year at Birkbeck.

If you have any questions, please feel free to get in touch. Also, make sure you have read through the previous emails I sent.

Registration and Enrollment

If you have not yet done so, please accept our offer as soon as possible so you can begin the enrollment process.

Please read this page about how to complete the enrollment process: https://www.bbk.ac.uk/student-services/admissions/enrolment.

If you need any help, please contact our Student Services: https://www.bbk.ac.uk/student-services.

Here is additional information for international students: https://www.bbk.ac.uk/international. Visa-related questions should be directed to our International Student Administration.

School Induction – Mark Your Calendar!

On Wednesday, 24th September 2025, the School of Social Sciences will hold an induction event for all incoming postgraduate students.

Please join us at Malet Street—you will have the opportunity to meet your cohort and many of the academics you will be working with.

Study Skills Workshops

You may also find these online tutorials prepared by Birkbeck's unique Study Skills Team helpful: https://www.bbk.ac.uk/student-services/learning-development/preparing-for-study.

Additionally, you are encouraged to sign up for various training workshops organized by the College: https://www.bbk.ac.uk/events?tag=306.

Pre-Arrival Readings

As promised, I would like to share the following readings. Note that these readings are by no means "textbooks." With one exception, you are not required to purchase or complete all of them.

1-on-1 Meetings with Program Directors

As your program director, I serve as your first point of contact.

Starting from August 18, I will be available to meet students via MS Teams. If you would like to have a chat with me (we can go over any questions you may have), please let me know.

Best,
Chao-yo

