Dear offer holders,

Once again, I hope all is well with you, as you are getting ready for an exciting year at Birkbeck!  

While the official induction event will take place as we are close to October (see the term dates here), I would like to invite you to an online open evening on 8 August at 6pm (London time).  You will learn more about the postgraduate social research programmes at Birkbeck.  You will also have the opportunity to ask any questions you have.  If you would like to attend the open evening, please register at https://www.bbk.ac.uk/events/remote_event_view?id=32770.

As promised, I would like to share the following readings, which I hope will help you get prepared.  These readings are by no means "textbooks," that being said, and with one exception you are not required to finish them all -- as a postgraduate student, you are tasked to read everything critically and accumulate your understandings about any subjects (with the help of your module tutors and dissertation supervisor). 

You may find these online tutorials prepared by our Study Skills Team helpful: https://www.bbk.ac.uk/student-services/learning-development/preparing-for-study; you will be able to access more support after you are officially enrolled.

Instead, please (1) make sure you get a chance to read the book by Mullaney and Rea, especially if your program requires a dissertation, and (2) pick anything you like to read.

On social research

Howard Becker, Tricks of the Trade (1998) 
Gerald Graff and Cathy Birkenstein, They Say I Say (2021) 
Thomas Mullaney and Christopher Rea, Where Research Begins (2022) -- buy the book (if you can)

On quantitative methods

Darell Huff, How to Lie With Statistics (1954)
Derek Rowntree, Statistics without Tears (1981)
David Spiegelhalter, The Art of Statistics (2019)
Charles Wheelan, Naked Statistics (2012)

On qualitative methods

Sally Campbell Galman: Shane, the Lone Ethnographer (2018) -- that's right; this is a comic book
Svend Brinkmann: Qualitative Inquiry in Everyday Life (2012)

If you have any questions, do get in touch.  Do make sure you have read through the emails I sent before.

Best,
Chao-yo