Social Network Analysis in Comparative Politics
Chao-Yo Cheng
University of California, Los Angeles

Preparation: Linear algebra (math camp materials)

Motivation (WK1)
	What is network? Complex system, network, and social network
	Why network?
	Network as the bridge between micro- and macro-perspectives
	Network as an interdisciplinary enterprise: Math, computer science, physics, management, biology and life sciences, engineering, and humanities, social sciences

Network and its components
	Graph (network)
	Nodes (vertices)
	Edges (links)
	Neighbors
	Vector and sets / adjacency matrix (sociomatrix) / edgelist

Descriptives of networks
	Degree
	Path
	Geodesic distance
	Density

Centrality
	Degree and eigenvector
	Betweenness and closeness
	... and more

ERGM
	Moving from descriptive statistics to generative models

Things to consider
	Reflect on your area(s) of substantive interest: Substance before methods
	Pick a particular structure/phenomenon/pattern of "relations"
	Describe how it might be represented using networks
		- What would the nodes represent?
		- What would the edges represent?
		- Should you use an undirected or a directed network?
		- Should you use a weighted or binary network?
		- Should you use an unipartite or bipartite?
	Reflect on the advantages and disadvantages of your chosen representation.
	What important features do you capture?
	What features might be distorted or left out?

Data sources
	Interviews and questionnaires
	Sociometric & egocentric observation
	Archival & 3rd party records
	Experiment
	Sampling (snowball, random walk, respondent-driven)
	See Mark Newman's collection of network data: http://www-personal.umich.edu/~mejn/netdata/ (check out "Dolphin social network")

Exercise
	Using R: Get to know the packages (manuals and vignettes) -- network and igraph
	Example: Florentine wedding data (see Padgett)
			Plot
			Degree
			Path
			Geodesic distance
			Density
			Centrality
			ERGM

SNA in comparative politics
	State building
		Acemoglu, Daron, Camilo Garcia-Jimeno, and James A. Robinson. 2015. "State Capacity and Economic Development: A Network Approach." American Economic Review 105(8): 2364–409.
	Regime change
		Linos, Katerina. 2011. "Diffusion through Democracy." American Journal of Political Science 55(3): 678–95.
		Naidu, Suresh, James A. Robinson, and Lauren E. Young. 2015. "Social Origins of Dictatorships: Elite Networks and Political Transitions in Haiti." Working paper.
	Information diffusion
		Larson, Jennifer M., and Janet I. Lewis. 2017, "Ethnic Networks." American Journal of Political Science 61(2): 350-64.
	Voting and electoral accountability
		Arias, Eric, Pablo Balan, Horacio Larreguy, John Marshall, and Pablo Querubin. 2017. "How Social Networks Help Voters Coordinate around Information Provision to Improve Electoral Accountability: Evidence from Mexico." Working paper.
		Cruz, Cesi, Julien Labonne, and Pablo Querubin. 2017. "Politician Family Networks and Electoral Outcomes: Evidence from the Philippines." American Economic Review 107(10): 3006-37.
	Legislative behaviors
		Bratton, Kathleen A., and Stella M. Rouse. 2011. "Networks in the Legislative Arena: How Group Dynamics Affect Cosponsorship." Legislative Studies Quarterly 36(3): 423-60.

Discussion and questions
	What to do in the Chinese context?
